README.md, before:

# 🍽️ **Table Reservations System**

A modern, enterprise-grade ASP.NET Core web application for restaurant table reservations and order management, built with professional design patterns and clean architecture principles.

[![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Entity Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/Entity%20Framework-Core-blue.svg)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/)
[![Architecture](https://img.shields.io/badge/Architecture-Clean%20&%20Enterprise-green.svg)](#-architecture--design-patterns)
[![Progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/Progress-75%25%20Complete-orange.svg)](#-development-progress)

---

## 📋 **Table of Contents**

- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture & Design Patterns](#-architecture--design-patterns)
- [Technology Stack](#-technology-stack)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [Development Progress](#-development-progress)
- [API Documentation](#-api-documentation)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)

---

## ✨ **Features**

### 🎯 **Core Functionality**

- **Table Reservation System** - Complete booking management with availability checking
- **Order Management** - Food ordering with shopping cart functionality
- **Product Catalog** - Menu management with categories and images
- **User Authentication** - Secure login with ASP.NET Identity
- **Admin Dashboard** - Comprehensive management interface

### 🏗️ **Enterprise Architecture**

- **Result Pattern** - Professional error handling throughout the application
- **Service Layer** - Clean separation of business logic from controllers
- **Repository Pattern** - Abstracted data access with Entity Framework
- **DTO Pattern** - Type-safe data transfer with validation
- **Dependency Injection** - Loosely coupled, testable architecture

---

## 🏛️ **Architecture & Design Patterns**

### **📐 Clean Architecture Implementation**

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│   Presentation      │  ← Controllers, Views, DTOs
│   (Web Layer)       │
├─────────────────────┤
│   Business Logic    │  ← Services, Business Rules
│   (Service Layer)   │
├─────────────────────┤
│   Data Access       │  ← Repositories, Entity Framework
│   (Repository Layer)│
├─────────────────────┤
│   Database          │  ← SQL Server, Models
│   (Data Layer)      │
└─────────────────────┘
```

### **🎨 Design Patterns Implemented**

#### ✅ **Completed Patterns (100%)**

| Pattern                  | Implementation                                      | Benefits                                                    |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Result Pattern**       | `Result<T>` & `Result` classes                      | Consistent error handling, no exceptions for business logic |
| **Repository Pattern**   | `IRepository<T>` interfaces with EF implementations | Abstracted data access, testable data layer                 |
| **Service Layer**        | Business logic separation from controllers          | Clean code, single responsibility principle                 |
| **DTO Pattern**          | Data transfer objects with validation               | Type safety, API contract definition                        |
| **Dependency Injection** | Built-in .NET DI container                          | Loose coupling, improved testability                        |

#### 🚧 **In Progress Patterns**

| Pattern               | Status     | Next Phase                       |
| --------------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Unit of Work**      | 📋 Planned | Phase 2 - Transaction management |
| **Specification**     | 📋 Planned | Phase 2 - Complex query logic    |
| **CQRS with MediatR** | 📋 Planned | Phase 3 - Advanced separation    |

### **💾 Data Models**

**Core Entities:**

- `Product` - Menu items with categories and pricing
- `Order` - Customer orders with details and shipping
- `Booking` - Table reservations with customer info
- `Category` - Product categorization
- `TableLocation` - Restaurant table management
- `ApplicationUser` - Extended user identity

---

## 🛠️ **Technology Stack**

### **Backend Framework**

- **ASP.NET Core 8.0** - Modern web framework
- **Entity Framework Core** - ORM for data access
- **ASP.NET Identity** - Authentication and authorization
- **SQL Server** - Primary database

### **Frontend Technologies**

- **Razor Pages** - Server-side rendering
- **Bootstrap 5** - Responsive UI framework
- **jQuery** - Client-side interactions
- **Chart.js** - Data visualization

### **Development Tools**

- **Visual Studio 2022** - Primary IDE
- **Git** - Version control
- **GitHub** - Repository hosting

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Prerequisites**

- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server) (LocalDB or full version)
- [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) or [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### **Installation Steps**

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Sushiba2ker/Table-reservations.git
   cd Table-reservations
   ```

2. **Setup the database**

   ```bash
   cd BT3_TH
   dotnet ef database update
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. **Run the application**

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

5. **Access the application**
   - Open your browser and navigate to `https://localhost:5001`
   - Register a new account or use the demo credentials

### **Configuration**

Update `appsettings.json` with your database connection string:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=(localdb)\\mssqllocaldb;Database=TableReservations;Trusted_Connection=true;MultipleActiveResultSets=true"
  }
}
```

---

## 📁 **Project Structure**

```
Table-reservations/
├── BT3_TH/                          # Main application
│   ├── Areas/                       # Feature areas
│   │   ├── Admin/                   # Admin management
│   │   └── Identity/                # User authentication
│   ├── Common/                      # Shared components
│   │   └── Results/                 # Result pattern implementation
│   ├── Controllers/                 # MVC controllers
│   ├── DTOs/                        # Data transfer objects
│   │   ├── ProductDto.cs
│   │   ├── OrderDto.cs
│   │   ├── BookingDto.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Models/                      # Domain models
│   │   ├── Product.cs
│   │   ├── Order.cs
│   │   ├── Booking.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Repositories/                # Data access layer
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   └── EF implementations
│   ├── Services/                    # Business logic layer
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   │   ├── IProductService.cs
│   │   │   ├── IOrderService.cs
│   │   │   └── ...
│   │   ├── ProductService.cs
│   │   ├── OrderService.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Views/                       # Razor views
│   ├── wwwroot/                     # Static files
│   └── Program.cs                   # Application entry point
├── requirements.md                  # Development roadmap
├── .gitignore                       # Git ignore rules
└── README.md                        # This file
```

---

## 📊 **Development Progress**

### **🎯 Overall Status: 75% Phase 1 Complete**

| Phase                   | Status         | Items | Progress |
| ----------------------- | -------------- | ----- | -------- |
| **Phase 1: Foundation** | 🟡 In Progress | 18/24 | 75%      |
| **Phase 2: Data Layer** | ⏳ Planned     | 0/18  | 0%       |
| **Phase 3: Advanced**   | ⏳ Planned     | 0/21  | 0%       |

### **✅ Completed Achievements**

**🏗️ Architecture Foundation (100%)**

- ✅ Result Pattern with `Result<T>` implementation
- ✅ Complete DTO structure for all entities
- ✅ Repository Pattern with Entity Framework
- ✅ Service Layer with business logic separation
- ✅ Dependency Injection configuration

**📋 Infrastructure (95%)**

- ✅ Professional error handling throughout
- ✅ Type-safe data transfer objects
- ✅ Clean code architecture
- ✅ Comprehensive logging and validation
- ⚠️ Minor property alignment needed (374 targeted fixes)

### **🔧 Current Focus**

**Immediate Tasks:**

1. **Model Property Alignment** - Synchronize service implementations with actual model properties
2. **Controller Integration** - Update controllers to use service layer and DTOs
3. **Complete Phase 1** - Finalize foundation patterns

**Next Phase Priorities:**

- Unit of Work pattern for transaction management
- Specification pattern for complex queries
- AutoMapper integration for object mapping

### **🎖️ Quality Achievements**

- **47 → 14 warnings** (70% reduction)
- **Zero compilation errors** (initial cleanup)
- **Professional error handling** throughout
- **Type-safe architecture** with DTOs
- **Clean separation of concerns**

---

## 📚 **API Documentation**

### **🎯 Service Layer APIs**

#### **Product Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<IEnumerable<ProductDto>>> GetAllProductsAsync();
Task<Result<ProductDto>> GetProductByIdAsync(int id);
Task<Result<ProductDto>> CreateProductAsync(CreateUpdateProductDto dto);
```

#### **Order Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<OrderDto>> ProcessCheckoutAsync(CheckoutDto dto, string userId);
Task<Result<IEnumerable<OrderListDto>>> GetOrdersByUserAsync(string userId);
Task<Result<decimal>> CalculateOrderTotalAsync(List<CartItemDto> items);
```

#### **Booking Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<BookingDto>> CreateBookingAsync(CreateBookingDto dto);
Task<Result<bool>> CheckTableAvailabilityAsync(string tableLocation, DateTime date, int duration);
Task<Result<IEnumerable<BookingDto>>> GetBookingsByDateRangeAsync(DateTime start, DateTime end);
```

### **🔄 Result Pattern Usage**

```csharp
// Success response
return Result<ProductDto>.Success(productDto);

// Error response
return Result<ProductDto>.Failure("Product not found", 404);

// Controller usage
var result = await _productService.GetProductByIdAsync(id);
if (result.IsSuccess)
    return Ok(result.Value);
return StatusCode(result.StatusCode, result.ErrorMessage);
```

---

## 🚀 **Performance & Features**

### **🔧 Built-in Features**

- **Responsive Design** - Mobile-first approach with Bootstrap
- **Data Validation** - Client and server-side validation
- **Error Handling** - Graceful error management with user-friendly messages
- **Security** - HTTPS, authentication, and authorization
- **Logging** - Comprehensive application logging

### **📈 Performance Optimizations**

- **Entity Framework** - Optimized queries with includes and projections
- **Async/Await** - Non-blocking operations throughout
- **Caching Ready** - Architecture prepared for caching implementation
- **Pagination** - Built-in support for large data sets

---

## 🤝 **Contributing**

### **Development Workflow**

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Run tests** (when available)
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   ```
5. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "feat: add amazing feature"
   ```
6. **Push to the branch**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```
7. **Open a Pull Request**

### **Code Standards**

- Follow **C# coding conventions**
- Use **meaningful variable and method names**
- Add **XML documentation** for public APIs
- Implement **proper error handling** with Result pattern
- Write **clean, readable code** with single responsibility principle

### **Architecture Guidelines**

- **Controllers** should be thin, delegating to services
- **Services** contain business logic and return Result objects
- **Repositories** handle data access only
- **DTOs** for data transfer between layers
- **Models** represent domain entities

---

## 📞 **Support & Contact**

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Sushiba2ker/Table-reservations/issues)
- **Documentation**: See `requirements.md` for detailed development roadmap
- **Architecture**: Review service layer implementation in `/Services/` directory

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙏 **Acknowledgments**

- **ASP.NET Core Team** - For the excellent framework
- **Entity Framework Team** - For the powerful ORM
- **Bootstrap Team** - For the responsive UI framework
- **Open Source Community** - For inspiration and best practices

---

**🚀 Ready to revolutionize restaurant management with enterprise-grade architecture!**

Commit message:

📝 Fix README: Remove MIT license reference
- Updated license section to reflect actual project status
- Changed from MIT license to educational/demonstration purpose
- More accurate representation of project licensing

README.md, after:

# 🍽️ **Table Reservations System**

A modern, enterprise-grade ASP.NET Core web application for restaurant table reservations and order management, built with professional design patterns and clean architecture principles.

[![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Entity Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/Entity%20Framework-Core-blue.svg)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/)
[![Architecture](https://img.shields.io/badge/Architecture-Clean%20&%20Enterprise-green.svg)](#-architecture--design-patterns)
[![Progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/Progress-75%25%20Complete-orange.svg)](#-development-progress)

---

## 📋 **Table of Contents**

- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture & Design Patterns](#-architecture--design-patterns)
- [Technology Stack](#-technology-stack)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [Development Progress](#-development-progress)
- [API Documentation](#-api-documentation)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)

---

## ✨ **Features**

### 🎯 **Core Functionality**

- **Table Reservation System** - Complete booking management with availability checking
- **Order Management** - Food ordering with shopping cart functionality
- **Product Catalog** - Menu management with categories and images
- **User Authentication** - Secure login with ASP.NET Identity
- **Admin Dashboard** - Comprehensive management interface

### 🏗️ **Enterprise Architecture**

- **Result Pattern** - Professional error handling throughout the application
- **Service Layer** - Clean separation of business logic from controllers
- **Repository Pattern** - Abstracted data access with Entity Framework
- **DTO Pattern** - Type-safe data transfer with validation
- **Dependency Injection** - Loosely coupled, testable architecture

---

## 🏛️ **Architecture & Design Patterns**

### **📐 Clean Architecture Implementation**

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│   Presentation      │  ← Controllers, Views, DTOs
│   (Web Layer)       │
├─────────────────────┤
│   Business Logic    │  ← Services, Business Rules
│   (Service Layer)   │
├─────────────────────┤
│   Data Access       │  ← Repositories, Entity Framework
│   (Repository Layer)│
├─────────────────────┤
│   Database          │  ← SQL Server, Models
│   (Data Layer)      │
└─────────────────────┘
```

### **🎨 Design Patterns Implemented**

#### ✅ **Completed Patterns (100%)**

| Pattern                  | Implementation                                      | Benefits                                                    |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Result Pattern**       | `Result<T>` & `Result` classes                      | Consistent error handling, no exceptions for business logic |
| **Repository Pattern**   | `IRepository<T>` interfaces with EF implementations | Abstracted data access, testable data layer                 |
| **Service Layer**        | Business logic separation from controllers          | Clean code, single responsibility principle                 |
| **DTO Pattern**          | Data transfer objects with validation               | Type safety, API contract definition                        |
| **Dependency Injection** | Built-in .NET DI container                          | Loose coupling, improved testability                        |

#### 🚧 **In Progress Patterns**

| Pattern               | Status     | Next Phase                       |
| --------------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Unit of Work**      | 📋 Planned | Phase 2 - Transaction management |
| **Specification**     | 📋 Planned | Phase 2 - Complex query logic    |
| **CQRS with MediatR** | 📋 Planned | Phase 3 - Advanced separation    |

### **💾 Data Models**

**Core Entities:**

- `Product` - Menu items with categories and pricing
- `Order` - Customer orders with details and shipping
- `Booking` - Table reservations with customer info
- `Category` - Product categorization
- `TableLocation` - Restaurant table management
- `ApplicationUser` - Extended user identity

---

## 🛠️ **Technology Stack**

### **Backend Framework**

- **ASP.NET Core 8.0** - Modern web framework
- **Entity Framework Core** - ORM for data access
- **ASP.NET Identity** - Authentication and authorization
- **SQL Server** - Primary database

### **Frontend Technologies**

- **Razor Pages** - Server-side rendering
- **Bootstrap 5** - Responsive UI framework
- **jQuery** - Client-side interactions
- **Chart.js** - Data visualization

### **Development Tools**

- **Visual Studio 2022** - Primary IDE
- **Git** - Version control
- **GitHub** - Repository hosting

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Prerequisites**

- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server) (LocalDB or full version)
- [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) or [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### **Installation Steps**

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Sushiba2ker/Table-reservations.git
   cd Table-reservations
   ```

2. **Setup the database**

   ```bash
   cd BT3_TH
   dotnet ef database update
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. **Run the application**

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

5. **Access the application**
   - Open your browser and navigate to `https://localhost:5001`
   - Register a new account or use the demo credentials

### **Configuration**

Update `appsettings.json` with your database connection string:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=(localdb)\\mssqllocaldb;Database=TableReservations;Trusted_Connection=true;MultipleActiveResultSets=true"
  }
}
```

---

## 📁 **Project Structure**

```
Table-reservations/
├── BT3_TH/                          # Main application
│   ├── Areas/                       # Feature areas
│   │   ├── Admin/                   # Admin management
│   │   └── Identity/                # User authentication
│   ├── Common/                      # Shared components
│   │   └── Results/                 # Result pattern implementation
│   ├── Controllers/                 # MVC controllers
│   ├── DTOs/                        # Data transfer objects
│   │   ├── ProductDto.cs
│   │   ├── OrderDto.cs
│   │   ├── BookingDto.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Models/                      # Domain models
│   │   ├── Product.cs
│   │   ├── Order.cs
│   │   ├── Booking.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Repositories/                # Data access layer
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   └── EF implementations
│   ├── Services/                    # Business logic layer
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   │   ├── IProductService.cs
│   │   │   ├── IOrderService.cs
│   │   │   └── ...
│   │   ├── ProductService.cs
│   │   ├── OrderService.cs
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── Views/                       # Razor views
│   ├── wwwroot/                     # Static files
│   └── Program.cs                   # Application entry point
├── requirements.md                  # Development roadmap
├── .gitignore                       # Git ignore rules
└── README.md                        # This file
```

---

## 📊 **Development Progress**

### **🎯 Overall Status: 75% Phase 1 Complete**

| Phase                   | Status         | Items | Progress |
| ----------------------- | -------------- | ----- | -------- |
| **Phase 1: Foundation** | 🟡 In Progress | 18/24 | 75%      |
| **Phase 2: Data Layer** | ⏳ Planned     | 0/18  | 0%       |
| **Phase 3: Advanced**   | ⏳ Planned     | 0/21  | 0%       |

### **✅ Completed Achievements**

**🏗️ Architecture Foundation (100%)**

- ✅ Result Pattern with `Result<T>` implementation
- ✅ Complete DTO structure for all entities
- ✅ Repository Pattern with Entity Framework
- ✅ Service Layer with business logic separation
- ✅ Dependency Injection configuration

**📋 Infrastructure (95%)**

- ✅ Professional error handling throughout
- ✅ Type-safe data transfer objects
- ✅ Clean code architecture
- ✅ Comprehensive logging and validation
- ⚠️ Minor property alignment needed (374 targeted fixes)

### **🔧 Current Focus**

**Immediate Tasks:**

1. **Model Property Alignment** - Synchronize service implementations with actual model properties
2. **Controller Integration** - Update controllers to use service layer and DTOs
3. **Complete Phase 1** - Finalize foundation patterns

**Next Phase Priorities:**

- Unit of Work pattern for transaction management
- Specification pattern for complex queries
- AutoMapper integration for object mapping

### **🎖️ Quality Achievements**

- **47 → 14 warnings** (70% reduction)
- **Zero compilation errors** (initial cleanup)
- **Professional error handling** throughout
- **Type-safe architecture** with DTOs
- **Clean separation of concerns**

---

## 📚 **API Documentation**

### **🎯 Service Layer APIs**

#### **Product Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<IEnumerable<ProductDto>>> GetAllProductsAsync();
Task<Result<ProductDto>> GetProductByIdAsync(int id);
Task<Result<ProductDto>> CreateProductAsync(CreateUpdateProductDto dto);
```

#### **Order Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<OrderDto>> ProcessCheckoutAsync(CheckoutDto dto, string userId);
Task<Result<IEnumerable<OrderListDto>>> GetOrdersByUserAsync(string userId);
Task<Result<decimal>> CalculateOrderTotalAsync(List<CartItemDto> items);
```

#### **Booking Service**

```csharp
Task<Result<BookingDto>> CreateBookingAsync(CreateBookingDto dto);
Task<Result<bool>> CheckTableAvailabilityAsync(string tableLocation, DateTime date, int duration);
Task<Result<IEnumerable<BookingDto>>> GetBookingsByDateRangeAsync(DateTime start, DateTime end);
```

### **🔄 Result Pattern Usage**

```csharp
// Success response
return Result<ProductDto>.Success(productDto);

// Error response
return Result<ProductDto>.Failure("Product not found", 404);

// Controller usage
var result = await _productService.GetProductByIdAsync(id);
if (result.IsSuccess)
    return Ok(result.Value);
return StatusCode(result.StatusCode, result.ErrorMessage);
```

---

## 🚀 **Performance & Features**

### **🔧 Built-in Features**

- **Responsive Design** - Mobile-first approach with Bootstrap
- **Data Validation** - Client and server-side validation
- **Error Handling** - Graceful error management with user-friendly messages
- **Security** - HTTPS, authentication, and authorization
- **Logging** - Comprehensive application logging

### **📈 Performance Optimizations**

- **Entity Framework** - Optimized queries with includes and projections
- **Async/Await** - Non-blocking operations throughout
- **Caching Ready** - Architecture prepared for caching implementation
- **Pagination** - Built-in support for large data sets

---

## 🤝 **Contributing**

### **Development Workflow**

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Run tests** (when available)
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   ```
5. **Commit your changes**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "feat: add amazing feature"
   ```
6. **Push to the branch**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```
7. **Open a Pull Request**

### **Code Standards**

- Follow **C# coding conventions**
- Use **meaningful variable and method names**
- Add **XML documentation** for public APIs
- Implement **proper error handling** with Result pattern
- Write **clean, readable code** with single responsibility principle

### **Architecture Guidelines**

- **Controllers** should be thin, delegating to services
- **Services** contain business logic and return Result objects
- **Repositories** handle data access only
- **DTOs** for data transfer between layers
- **Models** represent domain entities

---

## 📞 **Support & Contact**

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Sushiba2ker/Table-reservations/issues)
- **Documentation**: See `requirements.md` for detailed development roadmap
- **Architecture**: Review service layer implementation in `/Services/` directory

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is for educational and demonstration purposes. No specific license has been applied.

---

## 🙏 **Acknowledgments**

- **ASP.NET Core Team** - For the excellent framework
- **Entity Framework Team** - For the powerful ORM
- **Bootstrap Team** - For the responsive UI framework
- **Open Source Community** - For inspiration and best practices

---

**🚀 Ready to revolutionize restaurant management with enterprise-grade architecture!**
